Glossy addresses start with binary 1 1 0.
So once again this is not 110 in decimal but 1 1 0 in binary the 0.
In this case is in the third but position in the first octet.
So Class A had zero in the first but position clause be in the second and now Class C has the zero in
the third position going through the combinations in the first octet will give us a range of 192 to
2 to 3.
So this is the range of class C addresses in class C addresses the first 24 bits he's next.
The last 8 bits is host.
So for an address of 1 and 2 1 6 8 but one that one we know that this is a Class C address because the
first octet is in the range 1 9 2 2 2 3 3.
So we have a class C address which means that the first 24 bits is network and the last 8 bits or octet
is the host portion of the address.
So in other words just by looking at an address you'll now be able to determine if it's close a Class
B and Class C based on the ranges we've now discussed.
You'll also be able to know which portion is network and which portion is host.
But be careful has mentioned these clauses have been superseded by cyder we'll see IDR now Class D addresses
are different to class A B and C Class A B and C are used for unicast traffic Clause D addresses are
used for multicast traffic.
Now with multicast addresses in the first octet the zero is in the fourth but position.
So in these addresses the first three binary bits are set to 1 followed by binary 0 going through all
the combinations.
The range is from 2 to 4 to 239 in the first octet.
So this is the range of multicast addresses in IP version 4.
So here's an example address 2:39 dot one dot one dot one is a private to multicast address which could
be used internally within your organization.
Other examples of multicast addresses include well known multicast addresses for routing protocols such
as SPF the OSPF writing protocol uses multicast to do for data 0.04 five and two to 4.00 added six.
These multi-course in the 3:58 range are known as a link a local multi costs as these multi costs do
not propagate off the local link or local segment and multi-course in this range are often used by writing
protocols such as OSPF rap and others a multicast implies.
Once again that one device hes talking to a group of devices rather than one to one communication plus
email addresses or reserved addresses.
They start with four binary ones and on the range to $40.00 ero all the way to 255 255 255 255 which
is a reserved address for broadcasts.
We'll talk about broadcasts in a moment but once again the important piece to understand here is that
Clauss addresses on the range to 40 to 255 in the first octet class addresses are reserved addresses
for both testing and other purposes.
So a class 8 race uses the first 8 bits as the network portion.
So in a pure class you address the first 8 bits on network.
So in this example we've got network 10.0 does 0.0.
So that's the network address and we have an IP address of 10 to 1 or 2 to 3 which is the address configured
on a host.
So this is the host portion of the address.
And this is the network portion of the address plus a networks are once again in the range 1 to 126
in the first octet.
So if a router such as the one in this picture receives traffic going to an IP address of 10 that 1
to 1 to 1 the Radu would know that the host is on network 10 because this is a class A network.
So in this case it would route the traffic to the left hand side in the same way if it receives traffic
going to an address of 12. one would wonder when it knows that the host is on network 12 and it would
therefore rumped the traffic to the right hand side.
This is the reason why two hosts can have the same host portion.
So in pull the host portion is one dot one dot one because they are on different networks the network
portion is different.
The Rodek can use the colossal network.
In other words the first octet consisting of ten or 12 to differentiate between multiple networks.
So in this case it's routing on the first 8 bits of the address with Clasby networks.
The first 8 bits denotes the network portion of the address.
So in this example 1 7 to 16 is the network portion.
So this is the network address and our host may have an address such as one 17:16 one or two.
So one or two is the host portion of the address Clauss be networks on the range 128 to 191 in the first
octet.
So in the same way as the previous example a Rodek can rant traffic to an address of 1 7 $2.60 or 1.1
because it knows that the network is 1 7 to 16 and it can therefore react to the traffic to the left
hand side traffic going to host 1 7 2 Doctah 17 dot 1.1.
He's Rodek to the right hand side because the network portion is 177 team whereas this host with IP
address 1 7 2 or 16 not one to one has the network portion of 1 7 2 to 16 routers can run it correctly
once again even though the host portion is the same.
In other words in this example its 1.1.
But in this case the network portion is different.
So rafting takes place correctly.
The router knows that these two hosts are on separate networks because the network portion is different
and in the addresses one to once exec 1.0 would be a network address a host address would be something
like 1 9 2 2 1 6 8 or 1.1 glossy addresses on the range 192 to 2G 3 in the first octet.
So once again there are two devices in this example and they have the same host portion.
In other words not one but the network portion of these two host addresses is different.
On the left hand side we have 1 9 2 8 1 6 8 1.
And on the right hand side we have 1 9 2 1 6 8 2 2 in class C addresses the first 24 bits for the first
three octets of an address notes network.
And the last octet or last 8 bits denotes host portion in a class C network.